h1. Git

h2.Start Using Git

{% highlight bash %}
# cd into project your working on
cd <project>
# initialize a git repository
git init  
# add all of the files to the repository
git add .
# now commit the files to repository
git commit -m "My first commit message"
#+end_example

h3. Later, check which files have changed and are out of sync

{% highlight bash %}
# this will list changed files and new files
git status
# this will add the newly updated updated_file.php to the commit
# staging area
git add updated_file.php
# commit changes with a good change message
git commit -m "Fixed missing name bug in updated_file.php"
{% endhighlight %}

h3. Create a remote repository

{% highlight bash %}
# ssh into server and create repository directory
ssh boris@vladivostok.net
mkdir myproject
cd myproject
# --bare option means this repository will be pushed to and pulled
# from but never worked in directly (ie it will be a repository without working
# files).  This caused me no small amount of confusion when I first
# started using git.  
git init --bare
# exit out of distant vladivostok server
exit
# cd into local project
cd <project>
# add the remote repository
git remote add vladivostok ssh:boris@vladivostok.net:myproject
# now you can push a branch of the repository to the remote
# repository, "master" is the default main branch in git
git push vladivostok master
{% endhighlight %}
Sweet! Now your code is backed up on a remote server.  In fact your
code's entire history is on the remote server.  Everytime you make a
commit on the local server, you can push that change to the remote
server as well.

h2.  Good Git Introductions

h3 [[http://www.alistapart.com/articles/get-started-with-git/][Getting Started With Git]]

h3. [[http://schacon.github.com/git/everyday.html][Everyday Git with 20 commands or so]]

h2.  Git Next Level

h3. [[http://think-like-a-git.net/epic.html][Think like a Git]]

h3. [[http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/git-revision-control-perfected][Git: Revision Control Perfected]]

h3. [[http://cmurphycode.posterous.com/git-201-slightly-more-advanced][Git 201: Slightly More Advanced]]

h3. [[http://danielmiessler.com/study/git/][A Git Primer]]

h3. [[http://eagain.net/articles/git-for-computer-scientists/][Git for Computer Scientists]]

h3. [[http://tomayko.com/writings/the-thing-about-git][The Thing About Git]]

h2.  Git Workflow

h3. [[http://scottchacon.com/2011/08/31/github-flow.html][Github's Git Workflow]]

h3. [[http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/][Git-flow a more complex workflow]]

h2.  Github Stuff

h3. [[http://net.tutsplus.com/tutorials/other/getting-the-hang-of-github/][Getting the Hang of Github]]
